 hosts/amiga/README

This directory contains all specials needed for Amylaar-LPMud to compile
on an Amiga.

You'll find here:

  README   : this file.
  amiga.h  : include-file used by the driver main.c
  amiga.c  : some general routines for the Amiga.
  ixfile.h : redefines the some file-functions to use automatic name conversion
             from Unix to Amiga style.
  ixfile.c : the functions needed to convert filenames form Unix to Amiga style.
  nsignal.h: additional defines and prototypes for signal.c.
  signal.c : Implementation of timer-functions (alarm()) and true
             key-interrupt detection.
  signal_rr.c : that part of signal.c which needs registerized arguments
  telnet.h : copied from the main driver directory, defines the standard
             telnet command codes. socket.c needs this.
  mudmsgs.h: defines the both types of messages used in the socket simulation.
  socket.h    : the wrapping include, selecting the appropriate socket_?.h
  socket_sim.h: defines and prototypes for socket_sim.c
  socket_tcp.h: defines and prototypes for socket_tcp.c
  socket.c    : a wrapper for the appropriate socket_?.c
  socket_sim.c: implements a simulation of socket-communication.
                The functions dealing with hostnames are also put here.
  socket_sim_protos.h: Prototypes for socket_sim.c
  socket_tcp.c: implements some additional code to deal with Commodore's
                socket.library and the AmiTCP package.
  patchfloat.h: redefines floats as doubles to avoid problems when compiling
                for OS 1.3 with a compiler with no own float code.
  dstol.c  : A program to patch too-short-branches in DICE assembler files
             into long jumps. Needed to compile interpret.c
  astrip.c : A program to remove comments from the intermediate assembler
     files generated by DICE. Needed to compile interpret.c
     under low memory situations.
  README.PlayMud : A general description of PlayMud.
  PlayMud.c: A program to interface to Amiga-LPMud.
  README.Amiga : A general description of the port.
  CHANGELOG: A list of all the changes applied over the time.
  Makefile  : the Makefile to compile the whole driver, any compiler.
  DMakefile : the Makefile to use with DICE
  SMakefile : the Makefile to use with SAS/C
  config.h : the 'standard' config.h to compile the driver in cross-compat mode.
  config.h-gcc: the config.h to use with the gcc compiler.
  config.h-compat: the 'standard' config.h to compile the driver in compat mode.
  machine.h: the 'standard' machine.h to compile the driver.
  machine.h-gcc: the machine.h to use with the gcc compiler.

  NetIncl/ : Standard includes used with TCP.


All Makefile, machine.h and config.h are the Amiga-Replacements for the
corresponding Unix files in the top directory.
