CONCEPT
    types

DESCRIPTION

    Variables can have the following types:

    o int       An integer. Normally full 32 bits signed; ranges
                are -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,648.

    o status    OUTDATED - Status was planned to be an optimized
                boolean format, but this was never actually
                implemented. Statas does work; however, since it
                is only an alias for type 'int', just use int.

    o string    Strings in lpc are true strings, not arrays of characters
                as in C (and not pointers to strings). Strings are
                mutable -- that is, the contents of a string can be
                modified as needed. Strings are automatically concatenated
                by the gamedriver at runtime, so the + operator is no
                longer strictly necessary to combine two strings.

    o object    Pointer to an object. Objects are always passed by
                reference.

    o array     Pointer to a vector of values, which could also
                be an alist. Arrays take the form ({ n1, n2, n3 })
                and may contain any type or a mix of types. Arrays
                are always passed by reference. Note that the size
                of arrays in LPC, unlike most programming languages,
                CAN be changed at run-time.

    o mapping   An 'associative array' consisting of values indexed by
                keys. The indices can be any kind of datatype.
                Mappings take the form ([ key1: value1, key2: value2 ]).
                By default, mappings are passed by reference.

    o closure   References to executable code, both to local
                functions, efuns and to functions compiled at
                run-time ("lambda closures").

    o symbol    Identifier names, which in essence are quoted strings.
                They are used to compute lambda closures, e.g. instead
                of ({..., 'ident, ... }) you can write declare a 
                'symbol' variable foo, compute a value for it, and then
                create the closure as ({ ..., foo, ... })

    o float     A floating point number. The interpreter must have the
                floats enabled at compile time.

    o mixed     A variable allowed to take a value of any type (int,
                string, object, array, mapping, float or closure).

    All uninitialized variables have the value 0.

    The type of a variable is really only for documentation. Unless
    you define #pragma strict_types, variables can actually be of
    any type and has no effect at all on the program. However, it's
    extremely bad style to declare one type but use another, so
    please try to avoid this.

    A pointer to a destructed object will always have the value 0.


SEE ALSO
    alists(LPC), arrays(LPC), mappings(LPC), closures(LPC),
    typeof(E), get_type_info(E), inheritance(LPC), pragma(LPC),
    strings(LPC), modifiers(LPC)
